What is OOPS?
Object Oriented Programming System is the programming pattern to write programs based on the real world objects. The states and behaviors of an object are represented as the member variables and methods. In OOPS programming programs are organized around objects and data.

Advantages of OPP?
Simplicity - Objects in OOP represents a real world entity, so the complextiy is reduced and the program struture is clear.
Code Reusability - Through inheritance the child class inherits the properites of the parent class so we dont to repeat the same code. 
Code Flexibility - It is offered by Polymorphism in the form of method overriding and method overloading.
Solving problems- A problem can be solved by breaking down into smaller pieces. Once the problem are broken they can be individually solved which in turn solves the main problem.
Security-A limited amount of data is show to the user which is archieved by abstraction.
Code Maintainance - Code is mantained in packages so it is always easy and time-saving to maintain and modify the existing codesbase.

What is difference between OOP and Functional Programming?
OOPS is based on concept of objects and methods while Functional programming is focused on the use of function calls.
OOPS follows imperative programming model means it focuces on 'how you do thing' and function programming follows declarative programming model means 'what you want to do'.
OOPS does not support parallel programming where programs run in parallel like async programs which are supported by functional programming.
OOPS uses mutable data a data which can change over the time but functional programming uses immutable data.

What is JDK,JRE & JVM ? 
JDK(Java Development Kit) provides an environment to develop and run the Java program. It consists of JRE, development tools, javac compiler and doc generator 

JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is an installation package that provides environment to only run the program. It consists of libraries and JVM.

JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is used to load class files, checking the byte code and finally run code line by line it consists of JIT or Just In Time complier.

Java Code Execution ?
Java code is executed in 2 steps first its complied and then its interpreted.
Java code is first complied using the javac complier which converts the java code to machine independent byte code and stores it in a .class file 
After the code is complied it is then executed using the JVM. The classloader in JVM loads the class file which was complied then it is verified using bytecode verifier. Then bytecode is executed line by line. 
While executing the code line by line if one method is called many times it will be interpreted again and again which would reduce the effiency. The jit compiler solves this issue by providing the machine code which was once interpreted and stored in it. It makes the execution faster. There is garbage collection at the end of the execution so as to free up the memory space that the program was using. 

Data types ?
Java is statically typed this means that all vairables must be declared before they can be used. 
Java has two categories of data:
 Primitive data
 Object data
Primitive data are only single values and have no special capabilities it includes int, boolean, char, byte, short, long, float, double
Non Primitive Data or Object data contains References to a memory location it includes String, Arrays and Classes.
String is non-primitive because only class can have methods. Primitive can not.

What is Package?
A package is a file that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. Conceptually you can think of packages as being similar to different folders on your computer. You might keep HTML pages in one folder, images in another, and scripts or applications in yet another. Because software written in the Java programming language can be composed of hundreds or thousands of individual classes, it makes sense to keep things organized by placing related classes and interfaces into packages.

Advantages of package?
Java package is used to categorize the classes and interfaces so that they can be easily maintained.
Java package provides access protection.
Java package removes naming collision.

Use Case of package?
It is use to categorize classes 
Example: Vehicle Package can have all the types of Vehicles Classes like Car, Bike etc.
Its basically we are categoring the data. 

What is interface?
An Interface in Java programming language is defined as an abstract type used to specify the behavior of a class. An interface in Java is a blueprint of a class. A Java interface contains static constants and abstract methods.

Explanation of Interface?
An Interface is about capabilities like a Player may be an interface and any class implementing Player must be able to move(). So it specifies a set of methods that the class has to implement. The Player is an instance because you can now control how different players in the game can move but the move property is applicable to each player.

Why do we use an Interface?
It is mainly used when we want to address some common functionality but dont want to specify how it works. 
Since java does not support multiple inheritances in the case of class, by using an interface it can achieve multiple inheritances.
It is also used to achieve loose coupling(change in one component least affects the existence or performance of another component).

Why use interface if we have Abstract Classes?
The reason is, abstract classes may contain non-final variables, whereas variables in the interface are final, public and static.

Real-World Example:
Let’s consider the example of vehicles like bicycle, car, bike, they have common functionalities. So we make an interface and put all these common functionalities. And lets Bicycle, Bike, car etc implement all these functionalities in their own class in their own way.

What is a Constructor?
A constructor in Java is similar to a method that is invoked when an object of the class is created.
Unlike Java methods a constructor has the same name as that of the class and does not have any return type.

Types of constructor?
In Java constructors can be divided into 3 types:
Non-parameterized Constructor - No arguments are specified Eg: Test()
Parameterized Constructor - When arguments are specified Eg: Test(a,b)
Default Constructor - When constructor are not specified Eg: Just create an object of a class 

Why there is a need to create a constructors if we have a default constructor?
We use them to create customized obj according to our needs.

What is constructor overloading?
Similar to Java method overloading, we can also create two or more constructors with different parameters. This is called constructors overloading.

What are access modifiers?
In Java, access modifiers are used to set the accessibility of classes, interfaces, variables, methods, constructors, data members, and the setter methods. 

Why use access modifiers?
Access modifiers are mainly used for encapsulation. It can help us to control what part of a program can access the members of a class. So that misuse of data can be prevented.

Types of acess modifiers?
Default- are visible only within packages. no keyword is used it by default.
Private- are visible only within the class 
Protected- are visible within the package or all subclasses of that class.
Public- are visible everywhere.

final Keyword?
The final keyword is used to denote constants. It can be used with variables, methods, and classes.
the final variable cannot be reinitialized with another value
the final method cannot be overridden
the final class cannot be extended

final keyword UseCase?
final variable - Companies name or for user contants which can be used as a reference like the uesr token.
final method - If we want display something which will always constant we can use final method. like showing all the users in a database can be final.
final classes -  this can be a child class as it shouldn't be inherited  a real life example is if acer nitro class which is a child class of AcerLaptop class, this acer nitro class can be final class as it should not be inherited as there are not sub variants to a acer nitro laptops.




